The game will have the player spawn into voxel based world randomly generated by the computer.

The player will have a lot of different skills to choose from, but needs to acquire skill points in order to learn any skill

These skill points are hidden at Talent shrines around the world and only by finding a Talent shrine will the player be able to learn skills.
In addition to Talent shrines, treasure chests will be hidden around the world as well. There are two types of chests, ones which have complete items and others containing crafting resources.

The game will feature a server client relationship for multiplayer, where a player will host the session. Everything will be Co-op though

The main goal of the game is to upgrade your city which in turn will upgrade the player. By upgrading the city NPC's will come live in it and have specific request for the player to build.

The city can be placed anywhere, but depending on the location, certain structures will be impossible to build.

The heart of the city is the Well of Life, which doubles as a health replenisher for the players

Should the heart of the city be destroyed, it reverts back into its item format and all buildings lose a lot of durability

In order to create other buildings, the player will need to gather resources either from treasure chests, enemy drops or from resource points such as ore deposits or trees

in addition to regular mobs, the game will feature giant enemies to evoke fear, excitement and anticipation in the hearts of the players.

Mainly the game aims to promote the sensation of exploration by rewarding the player with joy of discovery

by exploring, the player will reach his/her discovery stat, this is done by finding various 'Blueprints' around the world.

When the player has build a thinktank, the player will be able to store any blueprints found at the base and avoid losing them.

the blueprints can be combined into various new inventions, each resulting in a crafted item, either building, weapon, usable or vehicle

the game will feature various vehicles such as gliders, boats and bikes used to traverse the environment in style and with ease

in addition to the previously mentioned items, the player will also be able to craft utility weapons such as a grapplinghook to closing in on distant targets or traverse otherwise unreachable ground

the players will only carry one weapon with them, however this weapon can be upgraded to unknown weapons of the same type

defeating a mob will have the weapon gain exp and level the weapon, which in turn lets the player feed essence to boost a weapons damage against a certain enemy type

once some predefined requirements are reached, the weapon can be upgraded

